No interesting question, no aspiration to study.
To solve problem is like the Mine-Sweeping game: start to solve a problem, and meet more problems on the way of pursuing your interest, then solve them and go ahead, meet new problems...at last, a big field is known to you.

Linux
	Q: How does computer work? What is its working principle?

	Q: How does Linux work?

	Q: How to port Linux to a new hardware platform?

	Q: How to setup a workable Linux system? 
	
	Q: How to program in meltemi? 

	Q: What is the difference between meltemi and Linux?
	
	Q: In what situation shall we use workqueue/timer/wait_queue?

	Q: How to use iwconfig?

	Q: What is said in the Linux documentation?

	Q: What is the working principle of X Window?

	Q: What is ELF? What is the difference between it and Windows' file format?

	Q: How to apply multi-threads method on printing A and B tasks simultaneously?

	Q: How does irq work?

	Q: How to solve the sound problem(no sound inside of Vmware) of Vmware? 

	Q: How does qv4l2 work? Can I learn something from it?

	Q: How to get the coordinate data of N900 touch panel?

	Q: How to make a GTK program?	

	Q: What is the working principle of wine?

	Q: What is udev? What is the purpose of it?
	
	Q: What is the difference between FILE and file?

	Q: How does uboot work? How to compile it?

	Q: How does luvcview work? To analyze its source code...

FreeBSD
	Q: How to install FreeBSD?

	Q: What is FreeBSD? What is the difference between FreeBSD and Linux?

C++
	Q: How does C++ realize OOP?

	Q: What is template in C++?
	
Java
	Q: How to make(IDE, compile, run) a simple Java program?

Qt
	Q: How to statically link Qt exe file? So that we don't need the related big DLL files.

	Q: How to make a Qt container program?

HW
	Q: Where is the test pads' position of N900 serial port?

	Q: What is the working principle of watch dog?

	Q: What is USB OTG?

	Q: What is ULPI interface?

App
	Q: How to use aircrack to get the WIFI password?

Physics
	Q: What is the conversion efficiency of the solar cell?

	Q: How is the gravity field twisted?

	Q: What is space-time? What is the relationship between them?

	Q: Why the nuclear fission is stable? How to control it?

Biology
	Q: Why does mule cannot breed?

Project
	

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Purpose: To know which questions I had studied, to give the key word of the answer in Scrapbook, to exercise English...


Q: What is the effect of assert on Aggy? 
A: The display turns to black for a while, and then turns to white, then normal.

Q: Why Aggy could not be flashed?
A: RDC is a key factor, it should be flashed first.

Q: What is the difference between interrupt gate and trap gate?
A: interrupt gate is to catch interrupt; trap gate is to catch exception.

Q: How to append new content to existing file?
A: for example, cat "hello new line" >> existing_file
	
Q: How to send email in Linux?
A: mailx & mutt, refer to scrapbook

Q: How to input/show Chinese characters in Linux?
A: IBus and gvim, refer to scrapbook

Q: Where to download vim plug-in? How to install the vim plug-in?
A: From the website http://www.vim.org/scripts, you can find all the vim plug-in. c-support.vim was installed, refer to its README about installation.

Q: How to do arithmetic operations in Linux shell?
A: 4 kinds of methods, e.g. expr, let, $(( )), $[ ]
	
Q: How to reserve the space key in the Linux shell script?
A: By using like: echo "$VAR"

Q: What is your sentiment from game WinMine?
A: To solve problem is like WinMine, kick off a start, and then meet new problem, solve it, go ahead, meet more problems...at last, a big area appears.

Q: How to self-protect in an earthquake?
A: To select the small space, e.g. kitchen, toilet, or where can form triangle space; keep clearance from the door, window and balcony; when start quaking, turn off the heat and open the door; keep clearance from the precast concrete wall and doorpost...  

Q: What is BOM? And why do we need it?
A: It is byte-order mark, used to mark the encoding type of unicode file.

Q: What is LILO and GRUB? Where are they stored? And what is the difference between them?
A: They are both boot loader. 
BIOS -> MBR:512 Bytes(IPL: initial program loader + Partition Table) -> secondary boot loader.
(1) GRUB is more powerful and flexible than LILO. 
(2) LILO has no interactive command interface, but GRUB has. 
(3) LILO does not support boot from network, but GRUB does. 
(4) LILO stores the OS position info into MBR, so if we modify LILO, we need to rewrite the IPL into MBR again. This is unsafe, and GRUB does not do so. GRUB will switch to a command interface if its configuration file is wrong, and user could boot OS manually.

Q: How to use gparted?
A: To install gparted, run the command: sudo apt-get install gparted. gparted is like PQmagic of Windows and it is quite easy to use. 	

Q: How to use mke2fs?
A:
(1) check where the u-disk is mounted 
(2) umount it 
(3) mke2fs /dev/sdb1 
(4) mount it to some path, e.g. sudo mount /8G_Flash /dev/sdb1

Q: What is fsck command? How to use it?
A: fsck is to check and repair a Linux file system. E.g. sudo fsck -t ext3 /dev/sda3, and remember that before fsck, sudo umount /dev/sda3

Q: How to apply lilo.conf?
A: LILO is LInux LOader. LILO can be installed into MBR or Linux root partition. User can modify /etc/lilo.conf to control LILO. For example,
boot = /dev/hda
vga = normal
read-only
prompt
default = dos
timeout = 30
append="hdc=ide-scsi"
image = /boot/vmlinuz
label = linux
root = /dev/hda2
initrd = /boot/initrd 

Any change of lilo.conf, upgrade of kernel or reconstruction of initrd, user should run /sbin/lilo again to make LILO to be written into the partition.

Q: What kinds of Linux Desktop Environment do we have?
A: KDE, Gnome, Xfce, LXDE, etc.
(1) KDE is earliest, originated by Lynx' inventor, and it owns KOffice. 
(2) Gnome focuses on internationalization. 
(3) Xfce is a lightweight desktop environment, and its target is to improve the system efficiency. The main feature of Xfce is that it can be easily configed, and it has a window manager called XFwm. 
(4) LXDE is developed mainly by Taiwan guys, and its main feature is to be pragmatic, light and handy. In addition, LXDE can be run in very old machine, e.g. produced in 1999.

Q: What is class library?
A: e.g. MFC, VCL, STL

Q: What is VCL?
A: Visual Component Library, it is the basic class library of Delphi, C++ Builder. And it is platform independence, e.g. Windows, Linux, MacOS.

Q: What is EJB?
A: Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) technology is the server-side component architecture for Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE). EJB technology enables rapid and simplified development of distributed, transactional, secure and portable applications based on Java technology.

Q: What is the difference between Frame Buffer and X?
A: 
(1) X is a protocol, and it has X server and X client. X client requests to draw, and X server draws it.
(2) FrameBuffer is a driver interface, and it abstracts the display as frame buffer. User can regard it as the image of display memory. And after mmap to the user space, user can operate it directly.

Q: What is the difference of single quotes, double quotes and backticks?
A: 
(1) When shell meets the first single quote, it will ignore all the special symbol untill it meets the second single quote.
(2) Shell won't ignore 3 symbols, they are $, \, `.
(3) The backticks are for shell command replacement.

Q: What is the difference between source and exec commands?
A: exec will close current shell, and then continue to execute the later commands. And source command will execute in current shell but will not close it.

Q: What is the difference between pointer array and array pointer?
A: pointer array is an array pointers, array pointer is a pointer to an array.

Q: What is the difference between function pointer and pointer function?
A: 
(1) function pointer is for example, int (*f)(int x); It means a pointer points a function. The type of the function's return value must be same as the function pointer's type, e.g. int here. And user can invoke the function by *f.
(2) pointer function is for example, int *f(x，y); The function will return a pointer, and the pointer points to an interger.

Q: What is thread pool? What is its purpose?
A: Thread pool means there are some created threads, and they are in the free waiting state in the beginning. When there is new task, a free thread will be picked up to handle the task. And after finish, the thread will return to the thread pool to wait for new task.
The benefit of thread pool is the reuse of thread, no need to destroy and recreate a thread.

Q: How to make a size limited directory in Linux?
A: 
dd if=/dev/zero of=/home/test.img bs=1M count=1024
losetup /dev/loop1 /home/test.img
mkfs.ext4 /dev/loop1
mount /dev/loop1 ~/limitedDir

Q: What is loop device?
A: It can associate a file with a file system. It can be formatted and mounted.

Q: What is STL?
A: STL is Standard Template Library, it is for reusability and its design philosophy is generic programming. And it is like the case of MFC and VCL.

Q: What is EJB?
A: EJB is Enterprise JavaBean.

Q: What is the difference between file descriptor and file pointer?
A: File pointer points FILE struct, and FILE struct contains file descriptor and a buffer. A file descriptor points to a file descriptor list.

Q: What is process context?
A: When a process is running, all the CPU registers' value, process state and the content of the stack/heap are belong to process context. More details, refer to the Scrapbook.

Q: What is the purpose of system call?
A: The user space application goes into the kernel space via system call.

Q: Why a Linux interrupt cannot go into sleep?
A: An interrupt is not the schdule unit. So when an interrupt goes into sleep, it cannot switch its context, otherwise its state will be lost.
And no one will wake it uo if it goes into sleep.
At last, if an interrupt goes into sleep, and during the period, another interrupt occurs, then it will be blocked and cause the interrupt stack overflow. This will finally cause the OS crash.

Q: What is kernel-power of maemo? What is the difference between it and PR1.3? How to install it?
A: The enhanced kernel "kernel-power" is compatible with PR1.2 and PR1.3, contain lots of additional features (IPv6, NAT etc) and bugfixes. The kernel can be installed via Application manager from the System section. Installation of the customization package Kernel-Power-Settings is sufficient, as it depends on the kernel page.

Q: What is QoS?
A: In the field of computer networking and other packet-switched telecommunication networks, the traffic engineering term quality of service (QoS) refers to resource reservation control mechanisms rather than the achieved service quality. Quality of service is the ability to provide different priority to different applications, users, or data flows, or to guarantee a certain level of performance to a data flow.

Q: What is packet switching?
A: A packet switched network does not require this ‘rigid’ link. Communication between nodes is established and maintained by an intermittent flow of small portions of data through one or many different paths. The path taken by each portion of data or packet may depend on the status of links, or algorithms used by switching equipment. Switching is carried out by special nodes on the network which govern the flow of data. Such devices include switches, routers and bridges.

Q: What is NRZI? What is its advantage?
A: NRZI is Non-return-to-zero Code. Advantage: (1) Don't need a clock signal. (2) Even it is inverted, the signal sequence it represents is same. (3) In USB protocol, it will issue a SYNC field first so that the receiver can extracts the clock signal...

Q: How to implement USB OTG in N900? Why only SW work can solve it?
A: By applying "h-e-n" to enable the USB OTG function in N900. As for the hardware of N900, the USB ID pin is connected to GAIA directly, but not connected to ISP1707AET which is a USB transceiver. So there should be software trick to treat the N900 processor about the ID signal.

Q: Is there the chip that can convert the AV signal to RGB signals?
A: ADV7403, check the "Figure 9. ADV7403 Typical Connection Diagram" and CVBS input.

Q: How to enable N900' USB OTG?
A: h-e-n
